---
layout: post
title: PathLink
excerpt: Automating student-group making process using Machine Learning.
modified: 2021-01-13
categories: project
tags: [Machine Learning, Clustering]
comments: true
share: true
image:
  teaser: 2020-09-15-PathLink/teaser.png
---
This was a project built at the first ever hackathon I attended (virtually tho). It was organized by BOLT club at McGill in September 2020.  
\
Some courses in my first semester consisted of formation of groups so that students can collaborate together and have more of an in-class like experience, while being Zoom '24.  
I feel that professors and/or TAs end up spending a lot of time in making groups if they do everything manually, or if they randomly do the group-making process, the groups usually become uneven and students don't end up enjoying the course.  
\
So, the solution was to kill two birds with a single arrow (SIKE, just figuratively) and make an app that does both: automates the process as well as keep the team/group chemistry as best as it can!  
PathLink is an ML-powered functional prototype that automates the process of making groups based on student's preferences, time-zones, etc. It uses the **K-Means algorithm** to form clusters in the data. The app itself is built using the [Streamlit](https://www.streamlit.io) Python library and uses [Plotly](https://plotly.com) to display visualizations.  
\
Currently, PathLink falls into the typical hackathon-project category and is just designed to work on the data type specifically collected for the project.  
However, in future, I aim to make it scalable and able to fit to more generalized form datasets so that the targeted users can actually use it.  
<figure>
    <video controls="controls" src="/images/projects/2020-09-15-PathLink/demo.mov" type="video/mov" autoplay style="width:100%;"></video>
    <figcaption>A short demo of how PathLink works</figcaption>
</figure>


The project repo can be found [here](https://github.com/sarvasvarora/pathlink).